ELAN multi-file search domains config tool
==========================================

This tool will generate a new elan search domain from a list of files, bypassing the need to select files manually in the GUI.

__Motivation:__ In one project, I have a large directory of Elan projects. These particular files have no associated IMDI metadata, but search domains can be narrowed down by programmatically categorizing content. Moving or duplicating batches of files to sub-folders for easy addition of a batch to the multi-file search domains is messy and potentially risky for the data. Manually selecting dozens or hundreds of files to create a new search domain is unreasonable.

Elan reads multi-file search domains from a file called `mf_domains.pfsx`. By default on debian-based OSs, the file is located at `~/.elan_data/mf_domains.pfsx`. 

This program will either edit the exisiting `mf_domains.pfsx` file or generate a new one to contain a new mf search domain based on a list of input files and a batch name provided by the user. When chosing to edit or replace an existing `mf_domains.pfsx` doc, the program will generate a copy of the pre-edited version of the file, saved in the same location as `mf_domains.pfsx.OLD`.

Installation
------------

This is a Python 3 program that uses the folling modules:

* argparse
* xml.etree.ElementTree
* os
* shutil
* sys
* time

Make sure you have Python 3 installed, clone or download the `mk_mf_config.py` file.

Usage
-----

Call the program to see available options

    python3 mk_mf_config.py

There are three modes: `set`, `generate` and `undo`.

### set

`set` allows you to set options. Currently, there is one setable option, the default location of your `mf_domains.pfsx` file. By default, the location option is set to `None` in thie program, but you need to set it to use `generate -u | -r`.  Find your location and set with:

    python3 mk_mf_config.py set -l /home/bob/.elan_data

Make sure you set an absolute path.

### generate

`generate` takes two positional arguments, a file list, and a batch name. The list of files will become the new search domain; the batch name will be the name of the search domain. `generate` has a few options:

* -u | --update

This will add a new batch to the existing `mf_domains.pfsx` file. The location of your `mf_domains.pfsx` file needs to be set to use this option.

* -r | --replace

This will replace the existing `mf_domains.pfsx` file. The location of your `mf_domains.pfsx` file needs to be set to use this option.

Options `-u` and `-r` are mutually exclusive. If neither `-u` nor `-r` are given, the program will generate an `mf_domains.pfsx` file in the same directory.

* -p | --src_path

This will set the source path of the files in your file list. It may be that you have a file list like:

    file_0001.eaf
    file_0002.eaf
    ...
    file_9999.eaf

But the `mf_domains.pfsx` file should contain absolute paths. Set the -p | --src_path option to prepend full path info to each file in your file list before feeding it to the new mf domain. e.g. `-p /home/bob/elan_projects` would generate:

    /home/bob/elan_projects/file_0001.eaf
    /home/bob/elan_projects/file_0002.eaf
    ...
    /home/bob/elan_projects/file_9999.eaf

### undo

`undo` replaces the `mf_domains.pfsx` file with the `mf_domains.pfsx.OLD` file. N.b. `undo` is destructive – you can't recover the replaced file.

License
-------

Released under [gnu gpl-3](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).
